PROJECT STATUS REPORT
Project Name: SentriPi: Face Recognition using CNN on a Raspberry Pi
Team Members:
Prasanna Sridhar
Siyoum Sadore
Florian Strobel

Progress & Plan
Setup Completed: We installed a heat-sink to cool down the SOC and some peripheral hardware. Push button soldered and connected to a preselected pin (GPIO 17), enclosure being printed.Camera Installed.
Algorithm/Design Understanding and Implementation: Model was trained using pictures taken of the project group (15 pictures in total, 5/person). The system now detects faces  and matches them to known encodings. 
Results Generation Plan: The final output will be a physical product which can be implemented in the real world. It will be able to recognise a facial construct and label it the corresponding person. It will be notified to the user via the assistance of PushBullet mobile application.
Demonstration Plan: We will demonstrate the project by showcasing how the camera picks up the image of us, the facial recognition detects a familiar face and a notification will be sent to our phone.
Writing Plan: The structure in Overleaf for the paper was created consisting of Introduction, Problem statement, literature review, methodology, evaluation and conclusion. Most of the implementation is already done, so the focus for the next weeks will be on the writing part. Starting out with creating the diagrams necessary for understanding and then completing the text.

Progress Attributed to Each Team Member
[Team Member 1 Prasanna Sridhar]:
Current Contributions: Setup of Raspberry Pi, Development of Facial recognition library 
Next Steps: Designing a Web Portal for end user, writing of report (methodology)
[Team Member 2 Siyoum Sadore]:
Current: Hardware setup(soldering, heat-sink, push-button integration), Notification system setup, Facial recognition algorithm.
Next Steps:Currently working on GPIO trigger mechanism for sending push notifications, writing of report (results, discussion)
[Team Member 3 Florian Strobel]:
Current Contributions: literature review, creation of database for facial recognition, notification system algorithm and implementation
Next Steps: writing of the report (Introduction, problem statement, literature review, conclusion)
